+++
title = "The Use of AI"
categories = ["Tech","AI"]
summary = "Will AI take over and how much did it do all right here."
+++

The use of AI comes in very handy throughout the process of the site creation mostly in troubleshooting and fixing simple errors. Unfortunately I am broke and just use the free version of ChatGPT which you don't have to log into so it doesn't save any of your chat information but I'm here to tell you everything it did and what it helped me with. Starting off AI is a good and helpful tool for the use of site creation but at the same time I feel that it can harm the student who uses it if they rely on it too much. This is why I try to limit the use of AI and how much I depend on it. This being said, I still use AI to a good degree. I used ChatGPT to help me with all of the following things said below. First was getting the hugo site up in running. I tried a few different Hugo themes but could not seem to get any of them to work, which I found strange because I got the blowfish theme up and running a lot easier than the Vortisil theme that I currently have. So in my time of need trying to find a new theme that would work I went to ChatGPT. Unfortunately this even stumped AI for a little bit as I kept trying to get the site to work and it gave me advice and still nothing after a bit of doing this I would give up and move onto the next theme. AI doesnt know how to set up the hugo theme sites directly so it needs a lot of guidance in order to reach a functional site state after a while of trying on different themes i believe that i taught it enough that it finally got the theme to work. It wasn't pretty and the site barely functioned but at least I wasn't getting an error.  This was just the beginning. After that I messed around with all the site settings, figured out what edited what and then finally began my process. For the most part the setup was not very hard and using the TOML front matter was very easy as it was similar to that of the blowfish theme. After the setup of the site in its most basic form i was trying to figure out how to get my pictures to work at the top of each site so i went to AI and asked it questions about how to do this luckily it did know how to do this pretty quick and only took a few tries to set up which was better then how long it took the site to get up. Luckily AI explains everything it does and how it achieved it which makes it a lot easier to understand and how to modify it later one thing it does do bad in this aspect is when it explains something but it doesnt get it right i know this probably has something to do with my guidance to the AI or the fact that i’m broke and using the free basic model of ChatGPT but sometimes this can throw me off of the right track and actually be a little harder. The next thing that happened is I asked ChatGPT to make me cards for my blogs and articles on the web page. This gave it a cleaner look and made it easier to read. I did edit the cards a little more to achieve the look I was going for but overall it helped make the cards. The next thing I used it for was maybe a mistake and took way too long but I do like the way it turned out and that was in the blog section trying to make the categories all their own buttons and for it to filter the blogs to only show those blogs with that tag was very hard to do. Luckily for me I have worked quite a bit with the HTML format so doing html code and CSS styling is nothing new to me but the part that was hard was getting the overall look I wanted while getting the javascript to work. Shame to say but I allowed AI to create the javascript to do this as I spent a bit trying to figure it out and couldn’t get it to work. On the other hand it took me an AI about an hour of back and forth to finally get a version that worked. The last thing that I used AI for was to add the back to blogs button at the top of the blogs and the scroll to top button that is in the bottom right corner the overall look and the button was done by me but i couldn’t get it to float to the right and stay on the page as you scrolled. This was the moment that I realized how different the code of this theme was to that of blowfish, the previous theme that I was using. The first main difference was that all of the style of the pages and how the index pages were layout was done by the layout category of the code i had to put all of the styling that i wanted done and the layout of all the home pages into this layout section i tried for a while to get the site to accept the _index.md and the index.md pages as the start to those pages but that didn’t work the only way to fix these was to put everything into the layout folder under the html that needed to be used in this. AI tipped me off on this and gave me a very good way to do this and to use all that code. Unfortunately this code differed from that of the code i am normally used to so i had to use AI in order to help me get the base layouts for some of the pages. The theme did come with the layout for the main page though so I copied off of it and used that to help me with the other pages as they were all fairly similar. By far the place that AI was the most helpful or at least helped me the most even if it did lead me astray was in the creation of the Hugo site and how to set up the theme and get it working without this tiny bit of guidance then the site would have not gotten done since i would have never been able to get it started or at least with an easier theme. AI is also good at doing code; it doesn't always get it right but with enough guidance it tends to eventually get the answer. One way it falls short is it's not good at making things, at least in the sense of getting it to do what you want it to do. For instance, I wanted the boxes to look a certain way and it was just not fully pulling it off. It would also sometimes try to edit code that already worked or go back to something that was already fine. This would be annoying especially when I think I have that part finished and then it wants to change it and I have to be like NO. As I said earlier, sometimes it leads you astray and doesn't always get the answer right but it does try to correct its mistakes so as long as i don't believe everything it says then it's not too bad. Overall I think AI is a helpful and good learning tool but it can be used as a bad thing in order to cheat that whole process but as long as it is used for good and in some sort of moderation I think it is helpful.