+++
title = "Enhancment of Site"
categories = ["Programming","Tech"]
summary = "want to know more about how this site looks and what makes it look good then read it here."
+++

Enhancement of site
The Hugo theme that I decided to use is the Vortisil theme. The reason that I picked this theme was for two main reasons. Number one it is way simpler then that of the previous theme i was using which is blowfish. This site has a nice clean element to it that blowfish didn’t have and there are less moving parts. It was still difficult to set up and took some time to do so but after I got the hang of it the site setup became a lot easier. The second reason I like this theme is because it offers the option for dark mod which I just have a strange liking to and wish every site had that option. Other than those two things this site works similar to that of blowfish and other themes I have used. It uses CSS and HTML in order to style the page but this is where the actual enhancements come into play. The first thing that I decided to do was to make all the pages consistent. This is where I went into Canva and I started to make my own banners. The making of my own banners gave the site a more personal touch and not so much of a carbon copy site template. The next thing that I decided to do was add the main top navigation bar that allows users to move from one page topic to another. With that I also added the articles and the blogs to the home page. This for one makes the home page feel more filled with life but also allows the user to see recent blog posts and articles and topics like this one. I also wanted to make my blogs more fluid and feel like you can move between them easier so I added a back to blogs button at the top and I added a button that takes you back to the top of the page this allows for easier site navigation and for the users ease of use. The next thing I added was the use of categories that allows the user to now search categories by tags and types rather than going through the whole list. There also exists a search bar at the top of the main navigation that allows the user to type in certain words and find them in the blogs and articles. This allows the user to search for things particular to them so for instance if the user types in hamlet into the search it will bring up the blog that relates to that. Most of the enhancements were done by me and the structure and placement were as well but that doesn't mean no AI was used for more information on this go to the other article page about AI or for ease of use click right HERE. This is most of the enhancements that I made to the site in order to make it function and to look good.

