+++
title = "Comparing Hamlet"
date = 2025-11-20T12:00:00Z
type = "blogs"
categories = ["English","Hamlet","Final","Review"]
summary = "A review of hamlet the movie."
layout = "single"
+++
<div class="blog-content">

English Literature Survey Hamlet Paper

Throughout Kenneth Branagh’s movie Hamlet, Branaugh took many creative liberties in his interpretation of the book. Before we read Hamlet in class, I had already watched the Kenneth Branagh movie of Hamlet and read Hamlet two times prior so I had an overall general view of how I interpreted Hamlet. Before writing this, I rewatched the movie in order to refresh my memory as it had been some time since I last saw it. I forgot how good the movie is as I love the cast and the look of the characters. I also enjoy how they follow the book word for word and use the Shakespearean language. The way this movie shows itself makes me feel like I'm watching it on the stage back in Shakespeare's time. As a student that is majoring in art, I love the way that they use each frame and how they make your attention focus on a certain thing. After watching it a second time, I saw things in those scenes that I didn’t notice the first time.
</br>
The movie presents itself in a way that seems almost gloomy from the start. Most scenes are dark and it is sometimes hard to make out what is going on. But I feel that Kenneth Branagh does this for the purpose of making it feel like an older movie; as if we are watching something that took place in the past. With that being said, it also makes us feel like we are a part of the play with the characters sometimes breaking the 4th wall and talking to the audience. I know this was the original intent of the play as it was supposed to be played in front of a group of people but he didn’t necessarily have to do that. It also has a lot of moments where the characters talk to themselves in a way that isn’t directed toward the audience, but is said for the benefit of the audience. An example of this is the most famous Hamlet speech “To be, or not to be: that is the question:” (III.i.56). Instead of Hamlet looking at the audience in the main foyer room, he walks around talking to himself and then happens to look directly into the mirror that Polonius and Claudius are hiding behind. This shows the difference in the breaking of the 4th wall as he is no longer talking to the audience, but seems to be directing his speech toward other characters.
</br>
Let’s take it back to the start of the movie. We start with the ghost of King Hamlet. In this scene, it starts with the guards out front hearing a wailing cry. This differs a little from the Shakespeare play as it mentions ghostly whispers instead. Another thing that Branagh uses creative freedom on is how the ghost appears and how it, more or less, startled the guards and created a horror element especially with the dark and gloomy night and mist in the area. This makes the overall feel of the castle a little more medieval and cold, especially with the high amounts of blue and gray tones within the scene. Another part that adds to this is the overall feeling that ghost Hamlet is supernatural as he just appears and starts “haunting” the castle.
</br>
 In the next scene we see the massive grand hall which adds a lot more color to the overall play and differs a lot from that of the first scene. In this scene Hamlet, the main character, who is dressed all in black due to the mourning of the death of his dad, stands out due to the amount and splash of color within the scene. We can also see by the cuts back and forth between the characters, their overall reaction to what is going on and the look on their face shows how they feel about the situation. This scene shows the overall dissatisfaction that Hamlet has with the situation of his father’s death and his mother’s remarriage and the lack of empathy from his mother.  Her lack of empathy is apparent when she says “Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted color off,/And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark./Do not forever with thy vailed lids/Seek for thy noble father in the dust./Thou know’st ‘tis common; all that lives must die,/Passing through nature to eternity.” (I.ii.68-73).  
 </br>
As we go into scene III, we get to see a conversation between Laertes, Ophelia and Polonius. We can see that Laertes loves his sister and wants the best for her. He wants to try to keep her safe and we can see the slight fear in his face as he tells her to be careful of Hamlet. We can also see Polonius and his overbearing fatherly appearance as he tries to control the situation. However, the movie makes Polonius feel like a bit of a comic relief. His character just seems like someone you can laugh at. Even though they can both seem bossy and overbearing toward Ophelia, Laertes and Polonius both care for her and they have a nice family get together moment in the play (the first and the last family reunion). In the movie, Ophelia seems very vulnerable because, while she is an adult, she is portrayed in a very childish manner. 
</br>
As we go into scene IV, we get to see the ghost of Hamlet’s dad again.  In the movie, we get to see Hamlet chase the ghost through the woods. This is made even more dramatic by the creative tactics of the eerie lights that flash and the intense music that plays. The way the movie shows Hamlet’s actions makes it seem very “in the moment” and the close up of their faces really captures Hamlet’s fear in the moment. As we go into Scene V, the ghost tells Hamlet how he was murdered by Claudius. In this moment, the ghost is portrayed as a supernatural force that appears in an almost hellish style. From watching the movie and how the ghost appears, Branagh makes the ghost feel like some demon or haunted spirit as the ghost appears to be in some sort of pain. The addition of the lightning adds a fear-like factor to the overall scene. 
Now as we enter Act II scene I we get to see Polonius talking with Reynaldo. We really get to see Polonius as a manipulator. He starts to manipulate the people around him in order to get what he wants. He tells Reynaldo to go spy on his son and spread rumors about him just to see if they might be true. We also get to see a taste of Hamlet's madness in the movie. We see that Opheila has a flashback to what happened between the two of them and it shows a very dramatic moment that is almost unsettling to watch.
</br>
In the next scene II we see Claudius and Gertrude summon Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. They, as Polonius wants Reynaldo to do, want them to spy on Hamlet for them. We can see their inner struggle since Hamlet is their best friend, but they have no choice but to comply because of their loyalty to the crown. Next Polonius goes to the king and tells him that Hamlet is going mad and it is because he is in love with Polonius’ daughter, Ophelia. His proof is a love letter that Hamlet wrote to Ophelia.  In the movie, Polonuis reads the letter in an overly dramatic fashion, emphasizing certain words to convince the king of Hamlet’s madness. This is another way that Polonius uses his slight manipulation to change the story so others will agree with him. We then get to see Polonius and Hamlet together in the courtyard where Hamlet pretty much antagonizes Polonius the entire time, even calling him a “Fishmonger” which represents a low class person. We see that Hamlet starts to appear more mad and that he also doesn't seem to be in touch with reality. Hamlet is then approached by Rozencrantz and Guildenstern who wanted to check up on Hamlet. Hamlet quickly catches onto their motives: that they were sent by the King. In the movie, Hamlet’s facial expressions show the audience that he is clearly aware of their true intentions. He does not think they would have come to check on him on their own accord.  Finally, the Players arrive and Hamlet goes to greet them. Hamlet has a plan to have the Players perform a play that involves a similar reenactment of his father’s death as told by the ghost. He wants to see Claudius’ reaction to determine whether or not he believes that Claudius killed his father. 
</br>
For Act III Scene I we get to go back into the grand hall where Claudius and Polonius are trying to use Ophelia as bait to prove that Hamlet is mad because of his love for her. In the movie, they hide behind a two way mirror which uses a lot of creative freedom because, in the play, it just says they hide behind a tapestry. What really adds onto this scene in the movie is as Hamlet is giving his most famous speech he stares directly into the mirror. He can’t see them, but  this creates an epic but intense moment as the two men are in fear that they might be caught. They feel like he is looking right at them. The way that they also get really close to each other while hiding also creates a funny moment between the characters. As Ophelia enters we get to see a lot of emotions on all of the characters’ faces and how they really feel.  Hamlet states to Ophelia “If thou dost marry, I’ll give thee this plague/for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as/snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a/nunnery.  Go, farwell” (III.i.136-139). This line clearly shows that Hamlet is not “love sick” for Ophelia. 
</br>
In scene II we see Hamlet set up his trap for Claudius with the play. As the play goes on we get to watch the reactions to each character and how they feel in that moment. I think something the movie does well is the close-ups on the faces of Hamlet and Claudius and seeing the panic in one and the almost joy from the other. We can also see when Claudius gets up and leaves the room how everything becomes silent and this confirms Hamlet’s suspicion and that the ghost was telling the truth.
</br>
In scene III we see Claudius starting to repent something. The movie puts Claudius in a repenting box that allows the dark environment to close around him, but still light up his face. He seems to be genuinely repenting at first, but then he clearly states he would do it again and is not sorry. However, Hamlet thinks he is repenting so he can’t kill him due to their beliefs. This scene shows that Hamlet is so close to killing Claudius, knowing he could just shove the knife in there, but he doesn’t and we know he is only prolonging the inevitable.
</br>
In scene 4 we get some creative freedom as Hamlet enters his mothers room in order to comfort her about what Claudius did to Old Hamlet. In this, we get to see a lot of emotions from the characters and it really makes you feel bad for Hamlet even though he is yelling most of the time. Hamlet hears rustling coming from a tapestry and thinks it’s Claudius so he plunges a knife through it and kills the person.  Hamlet seems even more crazy when he finds out it was actually Polonius that he killed.  He nonchalantly insinuates that he shouldn’t have been eavesdropping and Hamlet and his mother continue the conversation. Branagh creates an almost funny moment because it feels so random and sudden the way they just continue to talk like nothing happened. I also think this scene is odd because we get to see the ghost again but only Hamlet can see the ghost and his mother can not. Perhaps this is an indication that he is truly mad.
</br>
As we roll into Act IV Gertrude talks to Claudius about what Hamlet did and we get to see her be shaken by the event that occurred. We also get to see the panic in Claudius’ face as he knows he will be next if he doesn’t do something about Hamlet. This really adds to the play as we get their visual representation of how they feel and their “oh no” face. We also see how he manipulates Gertrude again by giving her reassurance but also how to keep his own power on the throne.
</br>
In Scene II and III people start questioning Hamlet about where he put Polonius’ body and he creates this trail of riddles while also going on this massive running spree around the castle. I think this scene is done really well as he runs around faster, almost feeling like a weird dream. It shows how his actions have affected him causing him to run away faster as his problems slowly catch up to him. Claudius has a plan to ship Hamlet off to England and secretly have him assassinated. Their conversation gets heated and the movie does a good job of showing the buildup of tension between the two. 
</br>
In Scene IV we get to see Hamlet run into one of Fortinbras’s army platoons, coming to kill old King Hamlet.  We can see part of Fortinbras’s incoming army and from the way the shot is angled, we have this nice snowy backdrop with the army ever-approaching. This shot shows us the craziness of this situation as they are marching in the snow to attack a king that has already been killed. The soliloquy that Hamlet gives “How all occasions do inform against me/And spur my dull revenge!” (IV.iv.32-33) shows how he is slowly ready to embrace action and actually do something. We can see from the imposing army and Hamlet's personal struggle with killing the king Claudius, that he finally may know what he wants to do and be ready to attack.
</br>
In scene V, we can see Ophelia slowly going into madness from the death of her father. These scenes are done really well as she is portrayed as a lost child; singing creepy-sounding sounds. The way the scene is framed really gives it a slight horror element. We can see how vulnerable Ophelia actually is and this grief from the death of her dad puts her over the line. We also see Laertes come back from his trip to France and learns about the death of his dad. Branagh does this scene with him coming back with an armed group that shows that Laertes is planning a threat against Claudius’ rule. We can also see Claudius’ master manipulation skills as he uses it against Laertes. 
</br>
In scene VI Horatio receives the letter from Hamlet about his escape from his ship to England and his trip back to Denmark. We can tell from the quick cuts back and forth in the movie that there is much urgency in this letter and we can tell Hamlet is only bringing chaos back with him. 
</br>
In scene VII, Claudius convinces Laertes to kill Hamlet. We can tell that Laertes is angry over the death of his father and the “accidental” death of his sister and this has clouded his judgment. He thinks someone needs to pay for what happened and that someone is Hamlet. 
</br>
Act V scene I, we get to see the gravedigger for the first time. Even though he doesn’t get much screen time, one of the most important parts of the movie happen here. The gravedigger adds a nice sense of humor with a dark and very gray tone cemetery. The film could do better to lighten this area up. Yes, it’s supposed to be dark but at the same time it’s hard to see what is going on at some points. In this scene we can also see an open grave which seems like a foreshadowing of what is yet to come, that one of the characters may end up there. We can see when Hamlet grabs Yorick’s skull that he knew who it was. We can see this by the flashbacks and close ups that the director gives us. In the movie, this part almost gets too personal as it appears that Hamlet is going to cry, showing us for the first time his vulnerable self. We also have to ask if Hamlet has gone out of his madness and I believe that he has but it was only from his time out of Denmark that made that possible.
</br>
Scene II, the final scene in the play was done really well. First, we see Hamlet going back over the story that he had sent to Horatio and, from the telling, I don’t think he regrets what he did. We can tell by the story and how everyone just seems to accept it that the world at which they live in is crazy. He then starts the duel that was proposed to him by Laertes. The tension is slowly built up because as the audience, we know what their plan is, as they slowly get ready for this fight. The fight then begins and it is fast-paced as they are both trying to hit each other. The camera cuts around and shows the swords that hit each other. We can see on both of their faces the growing intensity of whoever is going to land the first blow. Hamlet won the duel and Gertrude took the first drink from a poisoned glass that was meant for Hamlet. She dies and we can see Hamlet's grief when the camera cuts back to him. Both Hamlet and Laertes end up getting stabbed with Laertes poisonous blade. Hamlet is so upset about his mother’s death that he runs up to the king, stabs him multiple times with the poisonous blade and forces him to drink the poisonous drink. I think this is especially brutal and almost scary how Hamlet does this but it shows that Hamlet has finally made up his mind to commit the murder he had planned all along. 
</br>
I think this movie ends really well with the zoom out of the castle and Hamlet being carried out.  We also get to see the full pan of the castle with Fortinbras's army pulling up and the surroundings on fire. This creates a really cool ending to the movie and leaves us wondering who will rule Denmark next. Overall, I think the movie does really well at showing the story of Hamlet and I believe that it does a really good job at showing a visual interpretation of what happened while still following the play word-for word. It is a long movie but I believe it does really well to keep up the entertainment and keep it moving with barely any boring parts. I feel this film portrayed the play exactly as it should be. After I watched the Kenneth Branagh movie, I feel like the other Hamlet movies do not stick as closely to the original dialogue of the play.
</div>