+++
title = "Communication"
date = 2025-11-20T12:00:00Z
type = "blogs"
categories = ["Communication","Final"]
summary = "whats better then talking it out."
layout = "single"
+++
<div class="blog-content">

Communication Final Essay

When asked about the definition of communication, many people are not aware of how much communication is in everything we do. Communication ranges from person to person and culture to culture but, at its core, it remains the same. We all have to communicate with each other. Even when we don’t speak, we are still communicating. As the phrase says, “actions speak louder than words.” Even when we don't say anything, we can still “hear” what someone else says. Both our words and body language affect how we communicate. I think that the main definition of communication is: how we interact with one another in the world is based on the interactions from our previous experiences. This paper will expand on the knowledge of communication as a whole by showing the use of body language and how technology affects the way we communicate.
	The first main use of communication that doesn't involve a person directly speaking with another is nonverbal communication. Nonverbal communication is a really important factor in how we process information from another person. A good example of this would be if someone says “I am fine”, but their facial expression clearly expresses that they are upset. Without nonverbal clues such as hand gestures, facial expressions, and how we overall present ourselves in a situation, we would not be able to clearly communicate with one another. Nonverbal communication is important because it helps us to see if something in someone's speech lines up with the reactions of their body. It gives us a better understanding of a situation. The saying, “it's not what you said but how you said it,” is important to this topic as it shows that our interactions with someone else has a lot to do with how we present the issue. “Nonverbal codes are messages consisting of symbols that are not words, including nonword vocalizations (pg. 72)”. This quote is an example that the non verbal language we use consists of gestures and other movements that we use in a certain context. This connects to the idea of communication as a “whole person.” Without seeing the other expressions and codes that we use, we wouldn’t fully understand or grasp what someone else was saying.
	Technology also plays an important role in human communication. In terms of historical human communication, technology is really new. Technology affects how we receive news, updates on important events, and even communicate with others online. Technology comes with its own barrier, as many people will say things online that they would never say in real life. Many people think that what they do online will have no effect on them and that there will not be real life consequences for their actions. Also, with the mass amount of technology we use, it opens the door to receive more information about what is going on in the world around us. For example, the Vietnam War was the first war that had ever been mediated/televised. The outlash that people had from what was happening started to put many people against it. Media has opened up a lot of opportunities to get information from around the world.  Unfortunately, most of the news outlets only show bad press because it fear mongers the viewer into coming back. “Audiences do not want to hear from someone they do not trust or respect. They will not listen to or retain information from someone who has not earned the right to talk about that subject (pg.251).” People begin to gain trust with the media companies and news outlets that they frequently watch. Even if future information is skewed, people will continue to watch because of their previous trust of the outlet. 
	My definition of communication that says “how we interact with one another is based on the interactions from our previous experiences” is a process. A process is something that is ever growing and changing. As we get older, our life experiences  shape our perception of specific communication aspects. We will make assumptions, based on body language and facial expressions from our previous experiences, of someone’s actual feelings. The process that it takes to expand and grow our knowledge is not a short one. New forms of communication will continue to emerge. It's a back and forth with one another to understand how each person feels and functions.
	The use of nonverbal communication, and the overall use of media, shapes the way in which we interact with one another. I believe that a lot of what we communicate is not all about what we say, it’s about how people perceive what we are saying. We need to continue to learn from new experiences to help us grow in our communication style with each other. 	 
</div>